arcCD
=====

A set of scripts for archiving audio CDs built around cdrdao.

Team members
------------

* Carl Wilson carl@openplanetsfoundation.org
* Toni Sant t.sant@hull.ac.uk

This project is supported by a SPRUCE award.

# Description

arcCD is designed to archive at risk and decaying audio data on CDs. Such a process involves the deveopment of a workflow model to ensure that the data on the audio CDs being archived is preserved in the most appropriate way for long-term storage and easy access for further use.

The workflow model proposed through early adoption of arcCD on a relatively small collection of mainly hand-made audio CDs, includes the following steps: 
- Disk Imaging (stabilizing the data)
- Data Ripping (normalising the data) 
- Cataloguing
- Catalogue access

arcCD addresses the first two steps in this workflow model and provides all the necessary preparation for ingest of the stabilized data into a catalogue, along with normalized versions of the indivual audio files on each CD being preserved.

## Disk imaging
[x] This is the first process executed by arcCD.  A disk image is created as a BIN file with a unique ID assigned by the arcCD user. 

## Disk ripping
[ ] Individual BWAV files are created from the BIN file through a bchunk process.

## Cataloguing
[x] Initial meta data is derived from an INFO file created by the arcCD user containing the disk title, artist name, and individual track titles. This is compared to a TOC file generated by cdrdao for the BIN file created during the process of disk imaging. 

[ ] arcCD combines the information from the respective individual TOC and the INFO files into a CUE file containing all the essetial metadata for the BIN file. The current version does not do this.

## Catalogue access
[ ] This step in the work flow relates to the way/s an end user will browse and/or search the catalogue. An initial exploriation on this is being conducted by Darren Stephens at the University of Hull's Scarborough Campus (darren.stephens@hull.ac.uk), who is developing a way for the CUE files related to the individual BIN files to generate wiki pages outputting all the essential metadata associated with each disk image in a human readable user-friendly format.

# Storage (file location)
All files processed by arcCD are placed in a folder called arcCD in the user's default music folder.

# Verification
arcCD performs a checksum on all the files created during the imaging and ripping process to ensure data integrity throughout the process.
